---
layout: post
title: "Bandit: A Wargame"
date:   2017-05-18 12:00:00
---

The guys and gals over at [Overthewire.org](Overthewire.org) have come up with a series of command line games called *[Wargames](http://overthewire.org/wargames/)*. I've been playing through *[Bandit](http://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/)*, the easiest of the series. Here are my solutions so far.

Go to level [[0]](#level-0)[[1]](#level-1)[[2]](#level-2)[[3]](#level-3)[[4]](#level-4)[[5]](#level-5)[[6]](#level-6)[[7]](#level-7) *more coming soon*



## Level 0

### Goal
The goal of this level is for you to log into the game using SSH. The host to which you need to connect is **bandit.labs.overthewire.org**, on **port 2220**. The username is **bandit0** and the password is **bandit0**. Once logged in, go to the Level 1 page to find out how to beat Level 1.

### Solution
Ssh into Level 0 with the username **bandit0** and password **bandit0**
```
$ ssh -p 2220 bandit0@bandit.labs.overthewire.org
```

## Level 1

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in a file called readme located in the home directory. Use this password to log into bandit1 using SSH. Whenever you find a password for a level, use SSH (on port 2220) to log into that level and continue the game.

### Solution
While still logged in as **bandit0**, let's find the password for the next level.

```
$ cat readme
boJ9jbbUNNfktd78OOpsqOltutMc3MY1
```
The password for **bandit1** is **boJ9jbbUNNfktd78OOpsqOltutMc3MY1**.

## Level 2

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in a file called - located in the home directory.

### Solution
Ssh into the level with the Username **bandit1** and Password **boJ9jbbUNNfktd78OOpsqOltutMc3MY1**.

```
$ ssh -p 2220 bandit1@bandit.labs.overthewire.org
$ ls
-
$ cat ./-
CV1DtqXWVFXTvM2F0k09SHz0YwRINYA9
```

The password to for **bandit2** is **CV1DtqXWVFXTvM2F0k09SHz0YwRINYA9**.

## Level 3

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in a file called spaces in this filename located in the home directory.

### Solution
Ssh into the level using the username for this level, **bandit2** and enter the password we found in the previous level, **CV1DtqXWVFXTvM2F0k09SHz0YwRINYA9**.
>You will access each level the same way, but substitute the username and password for those which correspond to the level you are accessing.

Once logged in as **bandit2**, proceed with these commands.

```
$ ls
spaces in this filename
$ cat spaces\ in\ this\ filename
UmHadQclWmgdLOKQ3YNgjWxGoRMb5luK
```
*Or*
```
$ cat "spaces in this filename"
UmHadQclWmgdLOKQ3YNgjWxGoRMb5luK
```
Either method will produce the same result. The first method is what automatically populates when you enter the first few characters and press **TAB**.

The password for **bandit3** is **UmHadQclWmgdLOKQ3YNgjWxGoRMb5luK**.

## Level 4

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in a hidden file in the inhere directory.

### Solution

```
$ ls
inhere
$ cd inhere
$ ls -a
. .. .hidden
$ cat .hidden
pIwrPrtPN36QITSp3EQaw936yaFoFgAB
```
The password for **bandit4** is **pIwrPrtPN36QITSp3EQaw936yaFoFgAB**.

## Level 5

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in the only human-readable file in the inhere directory. Tip: if your terminal is messed up, try the “reset” command.

### Solution
```
$ ls
inhere
$ cd inhere
$ ls
-file00  -file02  -file04  -file06  -file08
-file01  -file03  -file05  -file07  -file09
$ file ./* | grep text
./-file07: ASCII text
# We now know that file07 contains the info we want
$ cat ./-file07
koReBOKuIDDepwhWk7jZC0RTdopnAYKh
```
The password to for **bandit5** is **koReBOKuIDDepwhWk7jZC0RTdopnAYKh**.

## Level 6

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in a file somewhere under the inhere directory and has all of the following properties:

- human-readable
- 1033 bytes in size
- not executable

### Solution
```
$ ls
inhere
$ cd inhere
$ ls
maybehere00  maybehere03  maybehere06  maybehere09  maybehere12
maybehere15  maybehere18  maybehere01  maybehere04  maybehere07
maybehere10  maybehere13  maybehere16  maybehere19  maybehere02
maybehere05  maybehere08  maybehere11  maybehere14  maybehere17
$ find . -type f -exec ls -l "{}" \; | grep 1033
-rw-r----- 1 root bandit5 1033 Nov 14  2014 ./maybehere07/.file2
$ cat maybehere07/.file2 | grep -v -e ' '
DXjZPULLxYr17uwoI01bNLQbtFemEgo7
```
The password for **bandit6** is **DXjZPULLxYr17uwoI01bNLQbtFemEgo7**.

## Level 7

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored somewhere on the server and has all of the following properties:
- owned by user bandit7
- owned by group bandit6
- 33 bytes in size

### Solution
This one took me a little while to figure out.
```
$ cat `find / -type f -user bandit7 -group bandit6 2>/dev/null`
HKBPTKQnIay4Fw76bEy8PVxKEDQRKTzs
```

`cat` reads the final output of the command in \`quotes\` <br/>
`find` is the command to find something <br/>
`/` tells find where to start looking (recursively by default)<br/>
`-type f` specifies that we're looking only for files, not directories or anything else <br/>
`-user bandit7` specifies that the owner of the file should be *bandit7* <br/>
`-group bandit6` specifies that the file be accessible by group *bandit6* <br/>
And finally, **the most important part**, `2>/dev/null` routes all 'Permission denied' errors to '/dev/null' (aka neverland) instead of to standard output.

Therefore, the password for **bandit7** is **HKBPTKQnIay4Fw76bEy8PVxKEDQRKTzs**.
